Something that is topsy-turvy is in a confused or disorganized state. (The world has turned topsy-turvy in my lifetime. ...the moss-covered, topsy-turvy gravestones.)
Sagacity is the quality of being sagacious. (...a man of great sagacity and immense experience.)
If you ensnare someone, you gain power over them, especially by using dishonest or deceitful methods. (Feminism is simply another device to ensnare women... We find ourselves ensnared in employment acts which do not help resolve industrial disputes.)
To chortle means to laugh in a way that shows you are very pleased. (There was silence for a moment, then Larry began chortling like an idiot.)
A squiggle is a line that bends and curls in an irregular way.
A mayfly is an insect which lives near water and only lives for a very short time as an adult.
A glade is a grassy space without trees in a wood or forest. (...a woodland glade.)
If someone whimpers, they make quiet unhappy or frightened sounds, as if they are about to start crying. (She lay at the bottom of the stairs, whimpering in pain... He made another pathetic whimpering sound.)
If you describe something as dreary, you mean that it is dull and depressing. (...a dreary little town in the Midwest... They live such dreary lives.)
A caterpillar is a small, worm-like animal that feeds on plants and eventually develops into a butterfly or moth.
Vermilion is used to describe things that are bright red in colour. (...her vermilion lip gloss...)
If someone's heart palpitates, it beats very fast in an irregular way, because they are frightened or anxious. (He felt suddenly faint, and his heart began to palpitate.)
The talons of a bird of prey are its hooked claws.
A portent is something that indicates what is likely to happen in the future. (The savage civil war there could be a portent of what's to come in the rest of the region... I hope this is a portent for the rest of the year... As for her engagement with Adam, I would say the portents are gloomy.)
Slush is snow that has begun to melt and is therefore very wet and dirty. (Becker's eyes were as cold and grey as the slush on the pavements outside.)
A pinnacle is a pointed piece of stone or rock that is high above the ground. (A walker broke his arms, legs and pelvis yesterday when he plunged 80ft from a rocky pinnacle.)
If you describe someone as puckish, you mean that they play tricks on people or tease them. (He had a puckish sense of humour, but was just as ready to apply it to himself as to others.)
If you say that a particular action or way of behaving is folly or a folly, you mean that it is foolish. (It's sheer folly to build nuclear power stations in a country that has dozens of earthquakes every year. ...a reminder of the follies of war.)
A martin is a kind of small bird with a forked tail.
If you cajole someone into doing something, you get them to do it after persuading them for some time. (It was he who had cajoled Garland into doing the film... He cajoled Mr Dobson to stand for mayor.)
To jeopardize a situation or activity means to do something that may destroy it or cause it to fail. (He has jeopardised the future of his government... The talks may still be jeopardized by disputes.)
